# Oracle

Rationale and design of the CHIMERA project (oraCle fasHion Industry MarkEting stRAtegy)

Introduction: In face of product competition, it has become significantly important for the businesses to achieve targeted marketing campaigns and providing customized offers for different customers in order to compete in the market. Customers’ needs represent the main concern for companies who put their effort to achieve customer satisfaction. As the customer base is increasingly day by day, customers analysis through the customer segmentation represents the first step to obtain a better understanding of the customer needs and requirements. 
With the increasing development of information technology, Web platform offers companies the opportunity to collect customers information that can be analyzed to improve the quality of their products and services. The large customers base with heterogeneity characteristics complicates the business strategic planning of companies. Business stratification for customers is crucial for companies because it can be used to tailor the offer to better serve the consumer resulting in customer satisfaction. Moreover, precise customer segmentation is associated with improved allocation and use of company’s resources, that can be further lead for care coordination of the different departments of the company. 
For precise business planning, customer segmentation or clustering can be used to achieve strategic goals [1]. Specifically, cluster analysis represent a business tool to identify and analyze potential different groups of consumers in a given market, and to maximize the customer satisfaction and hence, improving the company’s profit. Clustering techniques represent one of the application of data mining and machine learning (ML) to group customers with similar patterns into homogenous clusters hence, making easier for businesses to offer personalized service and thus strengthening the company’s relationship with consumers [2]. Consequently, companies can strategically design customized offers and services to meet the needs of each consumer segment, and also to meet the unsatisfied needs of each customer. Statistical data mining and ML are excellent analytical methods for clustering customers through identification of data patterns from complex data and accurately locate customers market needs [3]. The precise segmentation of customers by using geographic, demographic, and business information would provide a comprehensive strategic market planning, so to achieve a profitable design of customer marketing programs.
The aim of the oraCle fasHion Industry MarkEting stRAtegy (CHIMERA) project will be to realize needs-based customer segmentation using an interpretable ML-based approach for tailored marketing strategies.  

References: 
1.	Hoegele D, Schmidt SL, Torgler B. The importance of key celebrity characteristics for customer segmentation by age and gender: Does beauty matter in professional football?. Review of Managerial Science. 2016 Jul;10:601-27. 
2.	Tripathi S, Bhardwaj A, Poovammal E. Approaches to clustering in customer segmentation. International Journal of Engineering & Technology. 2018 Jul;7(3.12):802-7.
3.	Azuaje F, Witten IH, Frank E. Data Mining: Practical Machine Learning Tools and Techniques 2nd edition. Biomed Eng OnLine. 2006;5(1):51.
4.	Rivera-Borroto OM, Rabassa-Gutiérrez M, Grau-Ábalo Rdel C, Marrero-Ponce Y, García-de la Vega JM. Dunn's index for cluster tendency assessment of pharmacological data sets. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 2012 Apr;90(4):425-33.
5.	Lengyel A, Botta-Dukát Z. Silhouette width using generalized mean-A flexible method for assessing clustering efficiency. Ecol Evol. 2019 Nov 19;9(23):13231-13243.
6.	Vrieze SI. Model selection and psychological theory: a discussion of the differences between the Akaike information criterion (AIC) and the Bayesian information criterion (BIC). Psychol Methods. 2012 Jun;17(2):228-43.
